Let's continue working on the Mac here this is just the basis of the body.
We've got a subdivision surface modifier on it.
And we've also got a mirror modifier on it as well to begin adding the other pieces of the body.
I think we need to make this now all one piece.
All one objects so we need to apply the mirror modifier.
And in addition the subdivisions surface modifier is giving us some nice geometry here if we turn it
off.
We see that is pretty blocky.
I'd kind of like to have some more geometry to work with here.
So I think I'll apply the subdivision modifier as well.
So first off I'll just come down here to the mirror modifier and click apply.
And that applies.
So it's now all one object if I hit the tab key and go into vertex mode here I can select a vertex here
and hit the G key to move it around and you can see that that has sealed the center vertices up together
now.
So it's all one piece.
So now if I go back to object mode I can apply the subdivision surface modifier as well.
And now when I hit tab you can see I've got this extra geometry to it.
So now I think I'd like to work on this piece here this this window cockpit type thing.
I get the sense that there's a person in here that they're sitting down kind of in controlling all of
this.
So let's work on that.
There's a couple of ways to do this.
We could just put an object an oval object into there and then call it a day.
But I'd kind of like to have something inside there I'd kind of like to have maybe a chair and controls
and things like that in there.
So what I want to do is actually cut out that oval shape from this piece and to do that I'm going to
use a boolean.
Now a boolean will allow you to take one shape and cut that pattern out of another.
So I'm going to come over here to the Create tab and this time this time I think I'll create a U-V sphere
and I need to pull it out here because it always pops into the scene where ever this 3D cursor is.
And I think I'll just use my scale tool to get it scaled into the right size.
I mean hit the s key and scale it down a bit and maybe move it into place and also use the scale tool
to scale in the Zied just a bit as well.
Now this may not be the actual object that I'm going to use for this but I am going to use it to cut
out a shape from the main object so I'm thinking something about like that.
I'm going to turn off the manipulator here just by clicking this button so it doesn't get in the way
for a moment and take a look at this and that's about what I want I think something like that.
Yeah.
Now the interesting thing about this is I kind of wanted to do two booleans I want to cut this shape
into the main shape here and I'm going to hit command Z to undo.
And I also want to cut this into the smaller shape as well so it's just part of the sphere.
So I'm going to have to think ahead here.
So what I want to do is I'm going to go ahead and select these two and I'm going to press shift d to
duplicate them and then I click.
And now I want to move these over like that.
So I've moved them over this much negative 2.8 or whatever here.
So I could type in just negative 3 so I know that it's negative 3 for both of these.
This is one of the reasons why I tend to try and model in the center of the grid at least up front because
I know I can always get things back to where I want them to be.
By zeroing them out and they'll come back into the center of the grid.
All right so I've got these two collections of objects here.
I'm going to pass the key to get rid of that panel.
So what I want to do is cut this shape into this object so I'm going to select the main body here and
that's called temporarily.
At least that's called cube and I'm going to select the ADD modifier dropdown select boolean and for
this in this modifier I must select the object that's going to do the cutting here and I'm going to
select the first sphere.
Now there are several different operations that we can use here.
One is intersect.
That's what's happening now.
The intersection between those two objects another is union.
And if we press the Z key to go to wireframe mode we can kind of see what's going on here so it's highlighting
what's going to happen but if we choose difference we can see that we're going to get that piece cut
into the main object.
So I hit the Z key to go back to wireframe and hit apply.
And now if we take that and move it out we can see that we've cut that shape into that object.
OK so that's good.
Now what I want to do is I want to cut this the shape of that so I can go ahead and delete this with
the x key.
I don't need that anymore and I'm going to come over here and hit the period key on the numpad to zoom
in and for this one now I want to select this object and I want to add a boolean modifier to it.
And for the object that's doing the cutting I'm going to choose the cube 001 and Mammon to go wireframe
mode.
So we can kind of see what's happening here.
So this is the Intersect operation this is the union operation and this is the difference.
And that's what we want that.
I just want to cut that piece off so it fits on to here.
So I'll go back to shaded view with the Z key and I'll hit apply.
And now you can see that this one is cut out as well.
All right so I can get rid of this now.
And I can move this one back to the zero point in the x axis.
So now I've got the whole window here cut out and the hole here cut out.
Now the problem is is it's kind of a mess in that we've got this kind of ragged edge with guns here.
In other words polygons that are more than four sides.
We really want quads or tri's.
So there we have that piece cut out for us.
I'm going to go ahead and delete this.
I'm going to press a control tab and click face.
And now I'm going to hit the x key and delete faces.
I'm going to do the same thing over here am to select this one and try and get rid of the faces on this
side.
Now they're kind of a mess but I can press the C key for circle select.
So now I can just click and come through and select faces on this side of the object just kind of click
and drag and start getting rid of these.
I need to right click to get out of the circle tool and then hit X and choose faces.
And that'll begin to get rid of that see how ugly this is and that's fine.
I'm going to need to go through and clean this up a bit.
In addition if you go into vertex mode here you can see that there are these extra vertices hanging
out and those aren't good either.
Usually when you do a Boolean operation there is some cleanup that has to be done.
So if I select these vertices hit the x key and then choose dissolve vertices it should clean those
up so that ends up being a face with four sides.
So if you look at this face down here it's got one.
Well here let me go to edge mode it's got one two three four five sides and that's something you really
want to try and avoid.
So I'm just going to select that see that vertex and click dissolve and I'll just need to go through
and clean this up a bit.
So I've just gone around selecting these stray vertices and once I've done that I'll hit the x key and
click dissolve vertices and that should help clean that up.
In addition I've got a couple here I could maybe merge together so maybe I'll select these two and choose
Allt them and maybe merge these at the center of the two like that.
And one more thing to watch out for our faces like these.
You can see that this one has one two three four five sides to it might not be a problem in the future
but I'm going to go ahead and take these two points and merge them together with him.
And that will collapse that so that we have one face that's a try with three sides and one face that's
four sided.
So you might want to just go through and just make sure that all of those are cleaned up.